# Ethical-Design
 
 1. What is Ethical Design? - We'll define Ethical Design and explain how it relates to other terms, such as inclusive design, usability, accessibility, privacy, universal design, and human-centered design.

# Dark Patterns 

 1. Definition -  A deceitful technique used in websites and apps, where the interface tricks users into doing something they didn't intend to do.
 2.  Privacy Zuckering - Privacy Zuckering is when you are tricked into publicly sharing more information about yourself than you really intended to. It's named after Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, as Facebook encourages users to share information about themselves which is then used for ad targeting. Remember the 10 Year Challenge profile picture trend where people posted photos of themselves in 2009 and 2019?
 3. Friend Spam - Friend Spam is when a product asks for your email or social media permissions under the pretense it will be used for a desirable outcome but then spams all your contacts on your behalf. LinkedIn offers to help you connect with your friends on the platform by merely sharing your contacts. Sounds helpful, right? Well, embarrassingly enough, it emails your contacts that aren't on LinkedIn. The emails even use your name to make it seem like you were personally inviting them to join LinkedIn.
 4. Roach Motel - It's easy to get a booking, but challenging to get out. Have you ever upgraded a membership online, but when you wanted to downgrade, you had to call customer support and endure a grueling wait time? When I canceled my gym membership, I had to physically mail in the request. This required finding a printer, which I didn't have. And an envelope and stamp which I had already packed because I was moving. So while I easily signed up onsite, the gym made it difficult to get out.
 5. Forced Obsolescence - In 2020, Apple settled a $500 million dollar class-action lawsuit that accused the company of intentionally slowing down older phones' performance to encourage new phone purchases. In Apple's apology, they introduced a new feature called "Battery Health," which lets you check the maximum capacity of your battery. So instead of automatically capping performance without explanation, now consumers have insight into the cause of the slowdown and can, theoretically replace the battery to extend the lifespan of the phone.
 6. Hidden Costs - Hidden Costs occur when you discover unexpected charges at the end of a checkout process. Food delivery apps notoriously have costly service charges. This dark pattern is used to keep the perceived cost low, then revealing the true cost at the end, when you may be more committed to the purchase.
 7. Confirmshaming - Confirmshaming is the act of guilting the user into opting into something. Have you ever seen a popup take over a website, and the only way to close it is by clicking a link to decline? Instead of simply saying "close", it says "I don't like discounts." It preys on loss aversion and hopes your fear of missing out will urge you to opt into the mailing list. These gimmicks fill users with shame; it's much better to put the user in control and support their preferences.
 8. Disguised Ads - Sometimes ads are disguised to be part of the app, as you can see on Yelp in the image below. The ads (sponsored results) are mixed into the results with very little differentiation.
 9. Hard-to-Close Ads and Banners - Sometimes I accidentally open an ad as I try to close it! In the image below, the X icon is very low contrast and difficult to see. Size also matters; make buttons large enough to easily close. Interactive targets should generally be at least 44 pixels wide.
 10. Wrap-up - That's all the dark patterns we have time for now. The website darkpatterns.org showcases even more examples, and I encourage you to check it out.